## Hot News from Twitter Feeds

This project implements a system that detects trending twitter feeds online. The system is launched every 10 minutes to perform the following tasks:
* Download all new tweets from different news agencies.
* Store the attributes of each tweet into a database. 
* Process the tweet text, generate features (using td-idf + time features and then LSA). 
* Group similar tweets into a cluster (using hierarchical clustering). 
* Identify the best tweet from the best cluster (using cosine similarity) and decide if it is important based on its cosine similarity value with the cluster's centroid, the number of news agencies contributing tweets to the cluster, and the cosine similarity values between other cluster's members with the cluster's centroid. The information of the best tweet is written to a csv file. 
* Decide whether or not a notification should be sent.

Python 2.7 was used and Twitter API was accessed using "Tweepy".

**Scripts included in this project**:
* twitter_online.py: Main file containing the source code to do the tasks describe above. 
* twitterDownloader.py: Python class for downloading twitter feeds and storing them into a database. 
* twitterAlgorithms.py: Python class for preprocessing the twitter feeds, extracting features, clustering, identifying important feeds. 

**Outputs that will be generated by running twitter_online.py**:
* Tweets.db: Database that stores the tweets downloaded from the Twitter API. 
* Alerts.db: Database that stores tweets that are deemed interesting. 
* Results.csv: CSV file that contains information about the best tweet selected from the best cluster. This is useful for offline analysis to evaluate the performance of the trend detection system. 
* Notification.txt: Text file that stores notification messages.

**Input included in this project**:
* token.txt: Information needed for Twitter API authentication.

**Offline Analysis**:
*tweet_1000.db: 1000 tweets collected from all the news agencies respectively (the most recent one was created at 2015-08-22 02:30:08)
*Notification_Offline.txt: Twitter feeds that are considered important and should notify the users. These feeds were obtained from tweets from 2015-08-07 00:00:01 to 2015-08-22 02:30:08.
*Results_Offline.csv: Top tweets analyzed using data from 2015-08-07 00:00:01 to 2015-08-22 02:30:08.


